Dhruv Kolhatkar  
(919)559 -5541 | dukolhat@ncsu.edu  | linkedin.com/in/dhruv -kolhatkar  
 
EDUCATION  
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, N C                    May 2025  
Master of Computer Science  
Coursework: Design and Analysis of Algorithms, Software Engineering, Automated Learning and Data Analysis  
 
Savitribai Phule Pune University , Pune, India          May 202 3 
Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology  
Coursework : Database Management Systems, Operating Systems, Theory of Computation, Object Oriented System 
Design, Artificial  Intelligence, Machine Learning, Cloud Computing  
 
TECHNICAL SKILLS  
Languages:  Python , C/C++, JavaScript, HTML/CSS  
Databases and Operating Systems:  MS SQL , MySQL , MongoDB  
Tools/Frameworks:  React, Node.js, Flask, SKLearn, TensorFlow , Pandas, NumPy, Mat plotlib, Git,  Visual Studio  
 
WORK EXPERIENCE  
Software Engineer Intern, Atlas Copco, Pune, India           April 2021 – July 2021  
• Built 2 scalable c loud platforms  using Python and MS SQL  and deployed on production servers.  
• Transformed a paper -based product inventory  system on the factory floor to a cloud -based one.  
• Created a computer vision model and a web platform for it, capable of identifying design flaws in 10 products , 
which was u sed by all stakeholders (floor engineers, supervisors, maintenance, management ). 
 
Project Intern, Optimum Data Analytics, Pune, India                      Dec 2020 – April 2021  
• Built a  mobile application for internal communication and professional networking within  companies.  
• Designed and deployed a set of 20+ features(chat, profiles, rooms, etc) spanning 5 modules  using  a Flask 
(Python ) back-end and MongoDB  database  and Flutter (Dart)  front -end. 
 
PROJECTS  
Answer Sentence Extraction and Question Answering  
• Compiled a new dataset for Hindi multi -disciplinary QA using data scrapped from the public domain and 
improved  upon existing datasets such as MMQA and MLQA.  
• Trained  a novel algorithm leveraging  dependency  relations for question answering and answer selection . 
 
Breast Cancer Classification  
• Researched and implemented a convolutional neural network on the BreakHis dataset of  microscopic images 
for the classification of breast cancer achieving an accuracy of 98.7%.  
• Completed  a comparative study with other classical models such as random forest, support vector machines 
and state-of-the-art neural networks.  
 
Real -Time Facial Emotion Recognition  
• Trained convolutional neural network models for the purpose of facial emotion recognition, giving a maximum  
accuracy of 91.3%.  
• Developed model  in real -time using Open -CV for basic image re -structuring  (grey -scale, etc.) and Python for  
the front -end, back -end pipeline.  
 
Holistic Fitness Tracking Platform  
• Developed an all-purpose  fitness tracking website for calorie and exercise tracking, meal planning and a 
dedicated  wellness marketplace with 4 role logins.  
• Built a  React.js  front -end, Node.js  back-end and a MySQL database using sharding, triggers and query 
optimisation . 